<!-- Automatically generated by Pandoc -->


# Private Gems

Stashing private gems in your Gemstash server requires a bit of
additional setup. If you haven’t read through the [Quickstart
Guide](../readme.md#quickstart-guide), you should do that first. By the
end of this guide, you will be able to interact with your Gemstash
server to store and retrieve your private gems.

## Authorizing

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** Do not use the actual key value in this document,
otherwise your Gemstash server will be vulnerable to anyone who wants to
try to use the key against your server. Instead of the key value here,
use whatever key is generated from running the commands.

In order to push a gem to your Gemstash server, you need to first create
an API key. Utilize the `gemstash authorize` command to create the API
key:

    $ gemstash authorize
    Your new key is: e374e237fdf5fa5718d2a21bd63dc911

This new key can `push`, `yank`, and `fetch` gems from your Gemstash
server. Run `gemstash authorize` with just the permissions you want to
limit what the key will be allowed to do. You can similarly update a
specific key by providing it via the `--key` option:

    $ gemstash authorize push yank --key e374e237fdf5fa5718d2a21bd63dc911

When no permissions are provided (like the first example), the key will
be authorized for all permissions. Leave the key authorized with
everything if you want to use it to try all private gem interactions:

    $ gemstash authorize --key e374e237fdf5fa5718d2a21bd63dc911

With the key generated, you’ll need to tell Rubygems about your new key.
If you’ve pushed a gem to https://rubygems.org, then you will already
have a credentials file to add the key to. If not, run the following
commands before modifying the credentials file:

    $ mkdir -p ~/.gem
    $ touch ~/.gem/credentials
    $ chmod 0600 ~/.gem/credentials

Add your new key to credentials such that it looks something like this
(but make sure not to remove any existing keys):

``` yaml
# ~/.gem/credentials
---
:test_key: e374e237fdf5fa5718d2a21bd63dc911
```

The name `test_key` can be anything you want, but you will need to
remember it and use it again later in this guide for the `--key` option.

## Creating a Test Gem

You’ll need a test gem before you can play with private gems on your
Gemstash server. If you have a gem you can use, move along to the next
section. You can start by instantiating a test gem via Bundler:

    $ bundle gem private-example

You’ll need to add a summary and description to the new gem’s gemspec
file in order to successfully build it. Once you’ve built the gem, you
will be ready to push the new gem.

    $ cd private-example
    $ rake build

You will now have a gem at
`private-example/pkg/private-example-0.1.0.gem`.

## Pushing

If your Gemstash server isn’t running, go ahead and start it:

    $ gemstash start

Push your test gem using Rubygems:

    $ gem push --key test_key --host http://localhost:9292/private pkg/private-example-0.1.0.gem

The `/private` portion of the `--host` option tells Gemstash you are
interacting with the private gems. Gemstash will not let you push, or
yank from anything except `/private`.

## Bundling

Once your gem is pushed to your Gemstash server, you are ready to bundle
it. Create a `Gemfile` and specify the gem. You will probably want to
wrap the private gem in a source block, and let the rest of Gemstash
handle all other gems:

``` ruby
# ./Gemfile
source "http://localhost:9292"
gem "rubywarrior"

source "http://localhost:9292/private" do
  gem "private-example"
end
```

Notice that the Gemstash server points to `/private` again when
installing your private gem. Go ahead and bundle to install your new
private gem:

    $ bundle

## Yanking

If you push a private gem by accident, you can yank the gem with
Rubygems:

    $ RUBYGEMS_HOST=http://localhost:9292/private gem yank --key test_key private-example --version 0.1.0

Like with pushing, the `/private` portion of the host option tells
Gemstash you are interacting with private gems. Gemstash will only let
you yank from `/private`. Unlike pushing, Rubygems doesn’t support
`--host` for yank (yet), so you need to specify the host via the
`RUBYGEMS_HOST` environment variable.

## Protected Fetching

By default, private gems and specs can be accessed without
authentication.

Private gems often require protected fetching. For backwards
compatibility this is disabled by default, but can be enabled via
`$ gemstash setup` command.

When protected fetching is enabled API keys with the permissions `all`
or `fetch` can be used to download gems and specs.

On the Bundler side, there are a few ways to configure credentials for a
given gem source:

Add credentials globally:

    $ bundle config my-gemstash.dev api_key

Add credentials in Gemfile:

    source "https://api_key@my-gemstash.dev"

However, it’s not a good practice to commit credentials to source
control. A recommended solution is to use Bundler’s [configuration
keys](http://bundler.io/man/bundle-config.1.html#CONFIGURATION-KEYS),
e.g.:

    $ export BUNDLE_MYGEMSTASH__DEV=api_key

Behind the scene, Bundler will pick up the ENV var according to the host
name (e.g. mygemstash.dev) and add to `URI.userinfo` for making
requests.

The API key is treated as a HTTP Basic Auth username and any HTTP Basic
password supplied will be ignored.
